HTML BASICS
1).What is the purpose of the HTML <DOCTYPE> declaration?
It specifies the version of HTML that is used in the document and helps the browser to display the page correctly.
2).Explain the difference between <div> and <span> tags.
<div> is a block-level element it starts a new line while a <span> is an inline element it doesn't start a new line but takes up as much width as needed
3).What is semantic HTML, and why is it important?
They use descriptive tags (meaning elements that describe their meaning e.g nav or footer). These HTML semantics help with accessibility and also makes webpages easier to understand.

CSS FUNDAMENTALS
1).Describe the difference between margin and padding.
Margin is the space outside the element border while Padding is the space between the content of an element and its border.
2).What is box model in CSS?
Describes how elements on a webpage are structured, including content,border ,margin and padding.It helps determine an element's total size.
3).Explain the CSS specificity hierarchy?
Determines which style takes precedence. Inline styles have high priority , followed  by classes and element selectors.

RESPONSIVE DESIGN
1). What is media query and how is it used in Responsive design?
It specifies which style are to be applied to a certain size of a screen in order for the webpage to be user friendly.
2).Discuss the difference between adaptive and responsive design?
Adaptive design focuses on optimizing for a limited set of device sizes, while responsive design aims to create a universally accessible layout that offers a user-friendly experience across a wide range of screen dimensions.
3).Explain the concept of a viewport in web development
A viewport in web development is like a window through which you view a website on a device. It determines how content is displayed and scales on different screen sizes.

HTML and CSS FEATURES
1).List and briefly explain three new features introduced in HTML5.
Video and Audio elements. 
Semantic Html elements like nav , header and footer which gives a clear meaning and structure to webpages.
2).What are CSS variables, and how do they differ from traditional variables in programming languages?
These are custom properties that store values that can be used over and over again throughout the stylesheet. e.g if we have a main color that we want to add in a lot of places on our styling we can do this (--home-color : grey)
3). Discuss the advantages of using Flexbox or Grid layout in CSS?
Flexbox is good for arranging things is straight line, like  in rows or column while Grid is like a flexible puzzle letting you place items exactly where you want in columns and rows.UTogether , they help make webpages look organized , neat and fit well on all screen sizes.
